Documentation: Add more details regarding svc lb map sizing. (#36217)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/ebpf/maps.rst

Neighbor Table           node             512k            Max 512k neighbor entries
Endpoints                node             64k             Max 64k local endpoints + host IPs per node
IP cache                 node             512k            Max 256k endpoints (IPv4+IPv6), max 512k endpoints (IPv4 or IPv6) across all clusters

> Load Balancer            node             64k             Max ~3k clusterIP/nodePort Services (see: `service map tuning <#service-lb-map-tuning>`_ section for details).

Reviewer: Just mentioning it, as I'm not sure it's considered in the PR. There's actually two maps involved in the LB decision:
* `LB4_SERVICES_MAP_V2`, which contains the frontends ("Virtual IPs"), and the associated backends
* `LB4_BACKEND_MAP`, which is indexed with the backendID and describes the actual backend

Also note-worthy is that entries in the backend map can be shared (== Services that use the same endpoints can re-use the same value in the `LB4_BACKEND_MAP`)

Author: good point, I was mostly focused on the frontends map as that seems to be the thing to fill up first in most cases.  The service LB is indexed on the backend slot/ID hence why estimating map size requirements is a bit trickier, as it would be per-service virtual IP.  It also may be worth noting that the average selected Pods heuristic may break down if you say, had one service of many that selected many thousands of Pods where this single service could dominate the svc LB map (maybe taking a max is actually safer?).

> Also note-worthy is that entries in the backend map can be shared.

Yeah, backends map could be described as being the limiting factor for number of backends. So it may be worth leaving the previous line in but renaming it to "Load Balancer Backends" or similar.

I think this one is easier to reason about, I think it's just limited by the total number of _unique_ selected Pod backends.

Author: @julianwiedmann  Update this to keep the old row, but rename it to `Load Balancer Backends`.  I also update the LB Services section to mention that this is across all clusters.

+------+--------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
|   96 |          360 |               3145728 |           4552960 |
+------+--------------+-----------------------+-------------------+

.. _svc_lb_tuning:

Service LB Map Tuning
=====================

Cilium uses the LB services maps named ``cilium_lb{4,6}_services_v2`` to hold Service load balancer entries for clusterIP and nodePort service types.
These maps are configured via the ``--bpf-lb-map-max`` flag and are set to 64k by default. If this map is full, Cilium may be unable to reconcile Service
updates which may affect connectivity to service IPs or the ability to create new services.

> The required size of service LB maps depends on multiple factors. Each clusterIP/nodePort service will create
> a number of entries proportional to the number of backends per service (i.e. Pods selected by the Service>)
> times the number of port/protocol entries in the respective Service spec.
> 
> Using this, we can estimate the required map size as:

Reviewer 2: > Each clusterIP/nodePort service creates a number of entries proportional to the number of [...] times the number of [...].

I don't think each service creates a number “proportional” to the result from the multiplication, it just creates the resulting number of entries? (1 service -> nb of endpoints x port/protocols; but _not_ a multiple of this? Not counting x1 as a relevant factor)

```suggestion
The required size of service LB maps depends on multiple factors. Each clusterIP/nodePort service creates
a number of entries equal to the number of backends per service (i.e. Pods selected by the Service),
multiplied by the number of port/protocol entries in the respective Service specification. As a result, we can estimate the required map size as:
```

Author: Yeah correct, I'll make this more precise 👍

:math:`(\text{number of LB services}) * (\text{avg number of endpoints per service}) * (\text{avg number of port/protocols per service})`

Once Cilium has created the service LB maps for a Node (i.e. upon first running Cilium agent on a Node), attempting to resize the map size

> parameter and restart cilium will result in connection disruptions as the new map is repopulated with service entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameter and restart Cilium results in connection disruptions as the new map is repopulated with service entries.
```
